# Multi-Modal-Embeddings-Using-ImageBind-with-FAISS-for-Similarity-Search

Early this year, Meta released ImageBind - a model that redefines the boundaries of multimodal learning. This approach revolves around creating a unified embedding across six diverse modalities: images, text, audio, depth, thermal, and IMU data. The model harnesses the capabilities of state-of-the-art vision-language models on a large scale.

Let's dive into a practical application that takes the embeddings to the next level: similarity search using FAISS. FAISS, or Facebook AI Similarity Search, is a powerful library designed for efficient similarity search and clustering of dense vectors. We can now leverage the embeddings generated by ImageBind and seamlessly integrate FAISS to perform similarity search across multimodal datasets. From setting up the environment to extracting and indexing embeddings, we'll cover the basics of how to use the model in this article.

## Setting Up ImageBind

ImageBind is not available as a Python library yet, so we need to clone the official Github repo and work along with code provided there. 

<b>Note! While ImageBind is easy to use, setting it up can be quite cumbersome if you run into version conflicts with packages based on your environment. Feel free to update package versions in the requirements.txt file to address the conflicts.</b>


### Create a venv and clone the official repo

```
conda create --name imagebind python=3.8 -y
conda activate imagebind
```
```
git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/ImageBind
cd ImageBind
```
### Install packages from requirements.txt using below command
```
pip install .
```
### For windows users, you might need to install soundfile for reading/writing audio files
```
pip install soundfile
```
### Install FAISS
```
pip install faiss-cpu
```
### or
```
conda install -c pytorch -c nvidia faiss-gpu=1.7.4 mkl=2021 blas=1.0=mkl
```
### If you encounter ERROR: Could not build wheels for mayavi, which is required to install pyproject.toml-based projects
```
python -m pip install vtk==9.2.4 git+https://github.com/enthought/mayavi.git@master#egg=mayavi
```
### If you encounter "Unable to install Cartopy: Failed building wheel for Cartopy"
```
conda install -c conda-forge cartopy
```

## Running the code
After the set up is done, run main.py. You can then enter the search query to see the results.

```
python main.py
```
